feat!: rework `import.meta.glob` (#7537)
vitejs/vite: docs/guide/features.md

}
```

> Matched files are by default lazy loaded via dynamic import and will be split into separate chunks during build. If you'd rather import all the modules directly (e.g. relying on side-effects in these modules to be applied first), you can passing `{ eager: true }` the second argument:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Matched files are by default lazy-loaded via dynamic import and will be split into separate chunks during build. If you'd rather import all the modules directly (e.g. relying on side-effects in these modules to be applied first), you can pass `{ eager: true }` as the second argument:
```

}
```

### Glob Import As

> `import.meta.glob` also support importing files as strings (similar to [Importing Asset as String](https://vitejs.dev/guide/assets.html#importing-asset-as-string)) with the [Import Reflection](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-import-reflection) syntax:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`import.meta.glob` also supports importing files as strings (similar to [Importing Asset as String](https://vitejs.dev/guide/assets.html#importing-asset-as-string)) with the [Import Reflection](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-import-reflection) syntax:
```

```js
// code produced by vite
const modules = {
  './dir/foo.js': 'export default "foo"\n',
  './dir/bar.js': 'export default "bar"\n'
}
```

`{ as: 'url' }` is also supported for loading assets as URLs.

### Multiple Patterns

The first argument can be an array of globs, for example

```js
const modules = import.meta.glob(['./dir/*.js', './another/*.js'])
```

### Negative Patterns

Negative glob patterns are also supported (prefixed with `!`). To ignore some files from the result, you can add exclude glob patterns to the first argument:

```js
const modules = import.meta.glob(['./dir/*.js', '!**/bar.js'])
```

```js
// code produced by vite
const modules = {
  './dir/foo.js': () => import('./dir/foo.js')
}
```

#### Named Imports

It's possible to only import parts of the modules with the `import` options.

```ts

> const modules = import.meta.glob('./dir/*.js', { import: 'setup' })

Reviewer: Are multiple imports supported with an array? Should we add a section about this or maybe just use it in the example?
```suggestion
const modules = import.meta.glob('./dir/*.js', { import: ['setup', 'render'] })
```

Author: No, it does not support an array. Referring to the `eager: true` example, the named import will be directly used as the value instead of the "Module" object. For multiple named imports they might better use multiple statements.

Reviewer: Gotcha. Sound good since most of the cases when using glob would require a single import, so looks good to me to wait until users request the feature. We could support both string or array if we need to go there anyway.

```

```ts
// code produced by vite
const modules = {
  './dir/foo.js': () => import('./dir/foo.js').then((m) => m.setup),
  './dir/bar.js': () => import('./dir/bar.js').then((m) => m.setup)
}
```

> Combining with `eager`, it's even possible to have tree-shaking enable for those modules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When combined with `eager` it's even possible to have tree-shaking enabled for those modules.
```

```ts
const modules = import.meta.glob('./dir/*.js', { import: 'setup', eager: true })
```

```ts
// code produced by vite:
import { setup as __glob__0_0 } from './dir/foo.js'
import { setup as __glob__0_1 } from './dir/bar.js'
const modules = {
  './dir/foo.js': __glob__0_0,
  './dir/bar.js': __glob__0_1
}
```

Set `import` to `default` to import the default export.

```ts
const modules = import.meta.glob('./dir/*.js', {
  import: 'default',
  eager: true
})
```

```ts
// code produced by vite:
import __glob__0_0 from './dir/foo.js'
import __glob__0_1 from './dir/bar.js'
const modules = {
  './dir/foo.js': __glob__0_0,
  './dir/bar.js': __glob__0_1
}
```

#### Custom Queries

You can also use the `query` option to provide custom queries to imports for other plugins to consume.

```ts
const modules = import.meta.glob('./dir/*.js', {
  query: { foo: 'bar', bar: true }
})

> ```

Reviewer: Just a note, it would be good to avoid the name `query` since the way we add metadata/modifiers to imports is probably going to change in the future. But overriding `as` to allow for multiple values doesn't sound future-proof, and any other more generic name may actually end up conflicting with whatever gets standardized in the end. I thought of `metadata`, `modifiers`, `with`... we still have time until v3 to bike shed a bit if we find a more generic name that we are sure will not collide later. But for the moment, I think we can move forward with `query`

Author: I guess unless we are going to break our convention of using queries in v3.0, maybe naming it as `query` is still the most intuitive way to do it. In the future, if we find an alternative that does not use queries, (if it's not v3, probably v4) we could break this to align. It might be hard for now to foresee what's the format we gonna use in the future.
